RCSD Regulation 3311
================================================================================
Title: Bids
Status: ADOPTED
Original Adopted Date: 11/04/2009
Last Reviewed Date: 03/09/2022
Source: RCSD Policies 3000.pdf (Pages 61, 62, 63, 64, 65, 66, 67, 68, 69, 70, 71)
================================================================================

Advertised Bids for Public Projects
The district shall seek competitive bids through advertisement for contracts involving an expenditure of $15,000 or
more for a public project, unless, as here, the district has elected to adopt the California Uniform Public Construction
Cost Account Act, in which case, the bid threshold is as proscribed by Public Contract Code 22000 et seq.
Public project means construction, reconstruction, erection, alteration, renovation, improvement, painting, repainting,
demolition and repair work involving a district owned, leased, or operated facility. (Public Contract Code 20111,
22002)
Procedures for California Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act (CUPCCAA) Negotiated Contracts,
Informal Bids, and Formal Bids
The district has elected to adopt the California Uniform Public Construction Cost Accounting Act, in which case, the
current bid threshold is over $60,000, for a public project. Public project means construction, reconstruction,
erection, alteration, renovation, improvement, painting, repainting, demolition, or repair work involving a district
owned, leased, or operated facility. (Public Contract Code 22002)
1. Projects of $60,000 or less may be performed by force account, negotiated contract, or purchase order. (Public
Contract Code 22032)
 
2. Projects of more than $60,000 up to and including $200,000 may be let to contract by informal bidding
procedures.
 
a. The district shall maintain a list of qualified contractors, identified according to categories of work.
Minimum criteria for development and maintenance of the contractors list shall be determined by the
California Uniform Construction Cost Accounting Commission.
 
b. All contractors on the list for the category of work being bid or all construction trade journals specified in
Public Contract Code section 22036, or both all contractors on the list for the category of work being
bid and all construction trade journals specified in Public Contract Code section 22036, shall be mailed a
notice inviting informal bids unless the product or service is proprietary.
 
c. All mailing of notices to contractors and construction trade journals pursuant to subdivision (b) of section
22032 of the Public Contract Code shall be completed not less than ten (10) calendar days before bids
are due.
 
d. The notice inviting informal bids shall describe the project in general terms and how to obtain more
detailed information about the project and state the time and place for the submission of bids.
 
e. The governing board of the district may delegate the authority to award informal contracts by majority
vote in compliance with Board Policy 3312. (Education Code 17604)
 
f. The district shall review the informal bids and award the contract, except that:
 
i. If all bids received are in excess of $200,000, the governing board of the district may, by adoption
of a resolution by a 4/5 vote, award the contract, at $212,500 or less, to the lowest responsible
bidder, if it determines the cost estimate of the district was reasonable
 
ii. If no bids are received through the informal bid procedure, the project may be performed by
district employees by force account or negotiated contract.
3. Projects of more than $200,000 remain subject to formal bidding procedures, as follows: (Public Contract
Code 22032, 22037, 22038)​
a. Notice inviting formal bids shall state the time and place for receiving and opening sealed bids and
distinctly describe the project. The notice shall be disseminated in both of the following ways:
Board Policy Manual
Redwood City School District

i. Through publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the district's jurisdiction or, if there is
no such newspaper, then by posting the notice in at least three places designated by the district as
places for posting its notices. Such notice shall be published at least 14 calendar days before the
date that bids will be opened.
 
ii. By mail and electronically, if available, by either fax or email, to all construction trade journals
identified pursuant to Public Contract Code 22036. Such notice shall be sent at least 15 calendar
days before the date that bids will be opened.
 
iii. In addition to the notice required above, the district may give such other notice as it deems proper.
 
b. Bid instructions and specifications shall include the following requirements and information:
 
i. All bidders shall certify in writing the minimum, if not exact, percentage of post-consumer
materials in products, materials, goods, or supplies offered or sold. (Public Contract Code 22152)
 
ii. All bids for construction work shall be presented under sealed cover. The district may accept a bid
that has been submitted electronically or on paper. (Public Contract Code 20111, 20112)
The bid shall be accompanied by a form of bidder's security, including either cash or a cashier's
check payable to the district, a certified check made payable to the district, or a bidder's bond
executed by an admitted surety insurer and made payable to the district. The security of
unsuccessful bidders shall be returned in a reasonable period of time, but in no event later than 60
days after the bid is awarded. (Public Contract Code 20111, 20112)
 
iii. When a standardized proposal form is provided by the district, bids not presented on the standard
form shall be disregarded. (Public Contract Code 20111.5(c))
 
iv. Bids shall not be accepted after the advertised bid opening time, regardless of whether the bids
are actually opened at that time. (Public Contract Code 20112)
 
v. When two or more identical lowest or highest bids are received, the Governing Board may accept
the one it chooses.
 
vi. If the district requires that the bid include prices for items that may be added to or deducted from
the scope of work in the contract, the bid solicitation shall specify which one of the following
methods will be used to determine the lowest bid. In the absence of such a specification, only the
method provided in item #A below shall be used. (Public Contract Code 20103.8)
 
a. The lowest bid shall be the lowest total of the bid prices on the base contract without
consideration of the prices on the additive or deductive items.
 
b. The lowest bid shall be the lowest total of the bid prices on the base contract and
those additive or deductive items that were specifically identified in the bid solicitation
as being used for the purpose of determining the lowest bid price.
 
c. The lowest bid shall be the lowest total of the bid prices on the base contract and
those additive or deductive items that, when taken in order from a specifically
identified list of those items in the solicitation, and added to or subtracted from the
base contract, are less than or equal to a funding amount publicly disclosed by the
district before the first bid is opened.
 
d. The lowest bid shall be determined in a manner that prevents any information that
would identify any of the bidders or proposed subcontractors or suppliers from being
revealed to the district before the ranking of all bidders from lowest to highest has
been determined. (Public Contract Code 20103.8)
 
vii. In determining the lowest bid, the district shall consider only responsive bids that conform to bid
specifications and are submitted by responsible bidders who have demonstrated trustworthiness,
quality, fitness, capacity, and experience to satisfactorily perform the public works contract.

a. When a bid is determined to be nonresponsive, the Superintendent or designee shall
notify the bidder and give him/her an opportunity to respond to the determination.
 
b. When the lowest bidder is determined to be nonresponsible, the Superintendent or
designee shall notify the bidder of their right to present evidence of their responsibility
at a hearing before the Board.
 
viii. After being opened, all submitted bids become public records pursuant to Government Code 6252
and shall be made available for public review pursuant to law, Board policy, and administrative
regulation.
4. Award of Contract for Public Works Formal or Informal Bid Pursuant to CUPCCAA.
 
The district shall award the contract as follows:
 
The contract shall be awarded to the lowest responsible bidder. If two or more bids are the same and the
lowest, the district may accept the one it chooses.
 
At its discretion, the Board may reject all bids presented and declare that the project can be more economically
performed by district employees, provided that the district notifies an apparent low bidder, in writing, of the
district's intention to reject the bid. Such notice shall be mailed at least two business days prior to the hearing
at which the district intends to reject the bid. If all bids are rejected, after reevaluating its cost estimates for
the project, the District can either: (i) abandon the project; (ii) re-advertise for bids; or (iii) have the
project performed by force account by the Board’s passage of a resolution by a four-fifths (4/5) vote that the
project can be performed more economically by District employees.
 
If no bids are received through the formal or informal bid procedure, the project may be performed by district
employees by force account or negotiated contract.
 
5. In cases of emergency when repair or replacements are necessary, the Board may proceed at once to
replace or repair a facility without adopting plans, specifications, strain sheets, or working details, or giving
notice for bids to let contracts, in accordance with the contracting procedures in Public Contract Code 22050.
The work may be done by day labor under the direction of the Board and/or contractor. (Public Contract Code
22035)
These CUPCCAA bid limits will apply to maintenance projects, as the district has elected to subject its maintenance
projects to the CUPCCAA requirements. “Maintenance” means routine, recurring, and usual work for preserving,
protecting, and keeping a district facility operating in a safe, efficient, and continually usable condition for the
intended purpose for which it was designed, improved, constructed, altered, or repaired. Maintenance includes, but is
not limited to, carpentry, electrical, plumbing, glazing, and other craft work designed to preserve the facility, as well
as repairs, cleaning, and other operations on machinery and other permanently attached equipment. This definition
does not include, among other types of work, janitorial or custodial services and protection provided by security
forces, nor does it include painting, repainting, or decorating other than touchup. (Public Contract Code 20115)
Protests by Bidders for Formal Bidding of Public Works Projects under CUPCCAA
A bidder may protest a bid award if they believe that the award is not in compliance with law, Board policy, or the
bid specification. A protest must be filed in writing with the Superintendent or designee before 5:00 p.m. of the third
(3rd) business days after receipt of notification of the contract award and shall include all documents supporting or
justifying the protest. A bidder's failure to file the protest documents in a timely manner shall constitute a waiver of
their right to protest the award of the contract. Only a bidder who has actually submitted a bid, and who could be
awarded the contract if the bid protest is upheld is eligible to submit a bid protest. Subcontractors are not eligible to
submit bid protests. A bidder may not rely on the bid protest submitted by another bidder.
A bid protest must contain a complete statement of any and all bases for the protest and all supporting
documentation. Materials submitted after the bid protest deadline will not be considered.
The protest must refer to the specific portions of all documents that form the basis for the protest.
Without limitation to any other basis for protest, an inadvertent error in listing the California contractor's license
number on the Designated Subcontractors List shall not be grounds for filing a bid protest or grounds for considering

the bid nonresponsive if the correct contractor's license number is submitted to the District within 24 hours after the
bid opening and the corrected number corresponds with the submitted name and located for that subcontractor.
Without limitation to any other basis for protest, an inadvertent error listing an unregistered subcontractor shall not
be grounds for filing a bid protest or grounds for considering the bid nonresponsive provided that any of the
following apply:
a) The subcontractor is registered prior to the bid opening.
b) The subcontractor is registered and has paid the penalty registration fee within 24 hours after the bid
opening.
c) The Subcontractor is replaced by another registered subcontractor pursuant to Public Contract Code section
4107.
The protest must include the name, address and telephone number of the person representing the protesting party.
The party filing the protest must concurrently transmit a copy of the protest and any attached documentation to all
other parties with a direct financial interest that may be adversely affected by the outcome of the protest. Such
parties shall include all other bidders or proposers who appear to have a reasonable prospect of receiving and award
depending upon the outcome of the protest.
The procedure and time limits set forth in this paragraph are mandatory and are each bidder's sole and exclusive
remedy in the event of bid protest. Failure to comply with these procedures shall constitute a waiver of any right to
further pursue the bid protest, including legal proceedings.
Procedures for Equipment, Materials, Supplies, and Non-Public Works Contracts
The amount by which contracts for the purchase of equipment, materials, or supplies to be furnished, sold, or leased
to the district shall be competitively bid, and the bid threshold shall escalate automatically based upon the annual
adjustment by the Superintendent of Public Instruction. (Public Contract Code 20111(a); Government Code 53060)
Competitive bids shall be sought through advertisement for contracts exceeding $72,400 for the following:
1. The purchase of equipment, materials or supplies to be furnished, sold, or leased to the district
 
2. Services, not including construction services, or special services and advice in accounting, financial, legal, or
administrative matters
 
3. Repairs, including maintenance that is not a public project
Maintenance means routine, recurring and usual work for preserving, protecting, and keeping a district facility
operating in a safe, efficient, and continually usable condition for the intended purpose for which it was designed,
improved, constructed, altered, or repaired. Maintenance includes, but is not limited to, carpentry, electrical,
plumbing, glazing, and other craft work designed to preserve the facility, as well as repairs, cleaning, and other
operations on machinery and other permanently attached equipment. This definition does not include, among other
types of work, janitorial or custodial services, and protection provided by security forces, nor does it include painting,
repainting, or decorating other than touchup. (Public Contract Code 20115)
Unless otherwise authorized by law, contracts shall be let to the lowest responsible bidder who shall give such
security as the Governing Board requires, or else all bids shall be rejected. (Public Contract Code 20111)
The Board shall secure bids pursuant to Public Contract Code 20111 and 20112 for any transportation service
expenditure of more than $10,000 when contemplating that such a contract may be made with a person or
corporation other than a common carrier, municipally owned transit system, or a parent/guardian of students who
are to be transported. The Board may let this contract to other than the lowest bidder. (Education Code 39802)
No work, project, service, or purchase shall be split or separated into smaller work orders or projects for the purpose
of evading the legal requirements of Public Contract Code 20111-20118.4 for contracting after competitive bidding.
(Public Contract Code 20116)
When letting a contract for the procurement and/or maintenance of electronic data processing systems and

supporting software, the Board may contract with any one of the three lowest responsible bidders. (Public Contract
Code 20118.1)
Instructions and Procedures for Advertised Bids for Equipment, Materials, Supplies, and Non-Public Works
Contracts
The Superintendent or designee shall call for bids by advertising in a local newspaper of general circulation published
in the district, or if no such paper exists, then in some
newspaper of general circulation, circulated in the county at least once a week for two weeks.
The district may also post the notice on the district’s web site or other electronic portal and may accept a bid
submitted electronically or on paper. The notice shall state the work to be done or materials or supplies to be
furnished and the time and place where bids will be opened. (Public Contract Code 20112)
The notice shall contain the time, date, and location of any mandatory prebid conference, site visit, or meeting. The
notice shall also detail when and where project documents, including final plan and specifications, are available. Any
such mandatory visit or meeting shall not occur within a minimum of five calendar days of the publication of the
initial notice. (Public Contract Code 6610)
Bid instructions and specifications shall include the following requirements and information:
1. All bidders shall certify the minimum, if not exact, percentage of post consumer materials in products,
materials, goods, or supplies offered or sold. (Public Contract Code 22152)
 
2. All bids for equipment, materials, supplies, and non-construction work shall be presented under sealed cover
and shall be accompanied by one of the following forms of bidder's security: (Public Contract Code 20107,
20111)
 
a. Cash
 
b. A cashier's check made payable to the district
 
c. A certified check made payable to the district
 
d. A bidder's bond executed by an admitted surety insurer and made payable to the district
The security of unsuccessful bidders shall be returned in a reasonable period of time, but in no event
later than 60 days after the bid is awarded. (Public Contract Code 20111)
 
3. Bids shall not be accepted after the advertised bid opening time, regardless of whether the bids are actually
opened at that time. (Public Contract Code 20112)
 
4. When two or more identical lowest or highest bids are received, the Board may determine by lot which bid
shall be accepted. (Public Contract Code 20117)
 
5. If the district requires that the bid include prices for items that may be added to or deducted from the scope of
work in the contract, the bid solicitation shall specify which one of the following methods will be used to
determine the lowest bid. In the absence of such a specification, only the method provided in item #a below
will be used: (Public Contract Code 20103.8)
 
a. The lowest bid shall be the lowest total of the bid prices on the base contract without consideration of
the prices on the additive or deductive items.
 
b. The lowest bid shall be the lowest total of the bid prices on the base contract and those additive or
deductive items that were specifically identified in the bid solicitation as being used for the purpose of
determining the lowest bid price.
 
c. The lowest bid shall be the lowest total of the bid prices on the base contract and those additive or
deductive items that, when taken in order from a specifically identified list of those items in the
solicitation, and added to or subtracted from the base contract, are less than or equal to a funding
amount publicly disclosed by the district before the first bid is opened.
 

d. The lowest bid shall be determined in a manner that prevents any information that would identify any of
the bidders or proposed subcontractors or suppliers from being revealed to the district before the
ranking of all bidders from lowest to highest has been determined.
 
6. In determining the lowest bid, the district shall consider only responsive bids that conform to bid specifications
and are submitted by responsible bidders who have demonstrated trustworthiness, quality, fitness, capacity,
and experience to satisfactorily perform the contract.
 
a. When a bid is determined to be nonresponsive, the Superintendent or designee shall notify the bidder
and give them an opportunity to respond to the determination.
 
b. When the lowest bidder is determined to be nonresponsible, the Superintendent or designee shall notify
the bidder of their right to present evidence of their responsibility at a hearing before the Board.
 
7. Any subsequent change or alteration of a contract shall be governed by the provisions of Public Contract Code
20118.4.
 
8. After being opened, all submitted bids become public records pursuant to Government Code 6252 and shall be
made available for review pursuant to law, Board policy, and administrative regulation
Technology Contracts
Upon a finding by the Board that a particular procurement qualifies for the alternative procedure, the district may
acquire computers, software, telecommunications equipment, microwave equipment, and other related electronic
equipment and apparatus through competitive negotiation. This procedure shall not apply to contracts for
construction or for the procurement of any product that is available in substantial quantities to the general public.
(Public Contract Code 20118.2)
The competitive negotiation shall include, but not be limited to, the following requirements: (Public Contract Code
20118.1)
1. The Superintendent or designee shall prepare a request for proposals that shall be submitted to an adequate
number of qualified sources, as determined by the district, to permit reasonable competition consistent with
the nature and requirement of the procurement.
 
2. Notice of the request for proposals shall be published at least twice in a newspaper of general circulation, at
least 10 days before the date for receipt of the proposals.
 
3. The district shall make every effort to generate the maximum feasible number of proposals from qualified
sources and shall make a finding to that effect before proceeding to negotiate if only a single response to the
request for proposals is received.
 
4. The request for proposals shall identify all significant evaluation factors, including price, and their relative
importance.
 
5. The district shall provide reasonable procedures for the technical evaluation of the proposals received, the
identification of qualified sources, and the selection for the award of the contract.
 
6. An award shall be made to the qualified bidder whose proposal meets the evaluation standards and will be
most advantageous to the district with price and all other factors considered.
 
7. If an award is not made to the bidder whose proposal contains the lowest price, then the district shall make a
finding setting forth the basis for the award.
 
8. The district, at its discretion, may reject all proposals and request new proposals.
 
9. Provisions in any contract concerning utilization of small business enterprises, that are in accordance with the
request for proposals, shall not be subject to negotiation with the successful proposer.
Bids Not Required
Piggyback

Upon a determination that it is in the best interest of the district, the Board may authorize the purchase, lease, or
contract for data-processing equipment, purchase materials, supplies, equipment, automotive vehicles, tractors, and
other personal property through a public corporation or agency ("piggyback") without advertising for bids. (Public
Contract Code 20118)
California Multiple Award Schedule (CMAS)
The Board may, without advertising for bids, enter into master agreements, multiple award schedules, cooperative
agreements, including agreements with entities outside the state, and other types of agreement for acquisitions in
accordance with Public Contract Code Sections 10298 and 10299, and 12101.5, upon the same terms and
conditions agreed upon by the California Department of General Services and the respective awarded vendor,
pursuant to the California Multiple Award Schedules (CMAS).
Joint Purchasing Agreement (JPA)
In accordance with Government Code Section 6500 et seq., the Board may, by agreement with one or more public
agencies, jointly exercise any power common to the contracting parties, including, but not limited to, the authority to
levy a fee, assessment, or tax, even though one or more of the contracting agencies may be located outside this
state, without advertising for bids. It shall not be necessary that any power common to the contracting parties be
exercisable by each such contracting party with respect to the geographical area in which such power is to be jointly
executed.
Supplementary Educational Materials
Supplementary textbooks, library books, educational films, audiovisual materials, test materials, workbooks,
instructional computer software packages, or periodicals may be purchased in any amount without taking estimates
or advertising for bids. (Public Contract Code 20118.3)
Special Services
Without advertising for bids, the Board may contract with and employ any persons for the furnishing to the
corporation or district special services and advice in financial, economic, accounting, engineering, legal, or
administrative matters if such persons are specially trained and experienced and competent to perform the special
services required. The authority given to contract shall include the right of the district to contract for the issuance
and preparation of payroll checks. The district may pay from any available funds such compensation to such persons
as it deems proper for the services rendered. (Government Code 53060)
Professional Services
Contractors for any architectural, landscape architectural, engineering, environmental, land surveying or construction
project management services shall be selected, at fair and reasonable prices, on the basis of demonstrated
competence and professional qualifications necessary for the satisfactory performance of the services required.
(Government Code 4526)
Transportation Services
When the contract is for any transportation service which involves an expenditure of more than $10,000 and which
will be made with any person or corporation other than a common carrier, municipally owned transit system, or a
parent/guardian of a student who is to be transported, in which case the Board may contract with other than the
lowest bidder. (Education Code 39802)
Perishable Commodities
Perishable commodities, such as foodstuffs, needed in the operations of cafeterias may be purchased through bid or
on the open market. (Education Code 38083)
Emergencies
In an emergency when any repairs, alterations, work, or improvement to any school facility is necessary to permit the
continuance of existing school classes, or to avoid danger to life or property, the Board may, by unanimous vote and

with the approval of the County Superintendent of Schools, contract for labor and materials or supplies without
advertising for or inviting bids. (Public Contract Code 20113)
Day Labor
Bids shall also not be required for day labor under circumstances specified in Public Contract Code 20114. Day labor
shall include the use of maintenance personnel employed on a permanent or temporary basis. (Public Contract Code

Lease-Leaseback
When procuring a lease-leaseback contract, in which case the Board shall award the contract based on either the
lowest responsible bidder or the best value to the district, taking into consideration, at a minimum, relevant
experience, safety record, price proposal, and other factors specified by the school district in accordance with
Education Code 17400 et seq.
Design-Build
When procuring a design-build contract for a public works project in excess of $1,000,000 in accordance with
Education Code 17250.20 et seq., in which case the Board may award the contract to either the low bid or the best
value to the district, taking into consideration, at a minimum, price, unless a stipulated sum is specified, technical
design and construction expertise, and life-cycle costs over 15 or more years. (Education Code 17250.20, 17250.25)
Energy Service Contracts
Without advertising for bids, the Board may enter into an energy service contract and any related facility ground
lease, when it determines that the terms of the contract and lease are in the best interest of the district and meet the
cost effectiveness requirements specified in Government Code 4217.12. The Board's determination shall be made at
a regularly scheduled public hearing of which notice is given to the public at least two weeks in advance and shall be
based on cost and savings comparison findings specified in Government Code 4217.12. (Government Code 4217.12)
Sole Sourcing
Specifications for contracts for construction, alteration, or repair of school facilities may not limit bidding, either
directly or indirectly, to any one specific concern. Specifications designating a particular brand name shall follow the
description with the words "or equal" so that bidders may furnish any equal material, product, thing, or service.
(Public Contract Code 3400)
Specifications for contracts may designate a product by brand or trade name (sole sourcing) if the district has made a
finding, described in the invitation for bids or request for proposals, that a particular material, product, thing, or
service is designated for any of the following purposes: (Public Contract Code 3400)
1. To conduct a field test or experiment to determine its suitability for future use
 
2. To match others in use on a particular public improvement that has been completed or is in the course
of completion
 
3. To obtain a necessary item that is only available from one source
 
4. To respond to the Board’s declaration of an emergency, as long as the declaration has been approved
by four-fifths of the Board that issued the invitation for bid or request for proposals
Prequalification Procedure
For any contract for which bids are legally required, the Board may require that each prospective bidder complete
and submit a standardized questionnaire and financial statement. For this purpose, the Superintendent or designee
shall supply a form which requires a complete statement of the bidder's financial ability and experience in performing
public works. (Public Contract Code 20111.5)
Prospective bidders shall submit the questionnaire and financial statement at least five days before the date fixed for
public opening of sealed bids. The information shall be verified under oath in the manner in which civil law pleadings
are verified. The questionnaires and financial statements shall not be public records and shall not be open to public

Policy Reference Disclaimer:
inspection. (Public Contract Code 20111.5)
The Superintendent or designee shall establish a uniform system for rating bidders on the basis of completed
questionnaires and financial statements in order to determine the size of contracts on which each bidder is qualified
to bid. Bidders must be deemed prequalified by the district at least one day before the fixed bid-opening date. (Public
Contract Code 20111.5)
The Superintendent or designee shall furnish each qualified bidder with a standardized proposal form. Bids not
presented on the standard form shall be disregarded. (Public Contract Code 20111.5)
The district may establish a procedure for prequalifying bidders on a quarterly basis and may authorize that
prequalification be considered valid for up to one calendar year following the date of the initial prequalification. 
(Public Contract Code 20111.5)
Protests by Bidders
A bidder may protest a bid award if they believe that the award was inconsistent with Board policy, the bid's
specifications, or was not in compliance with law.
A protest must be filed in writing with the Superintendent or designee within five working days after receipt of
notification of the contract award. The bidder shall submit all documents supporting or justifying the protest. A
bidder's failure to file the protest documents in a timely manner shall constitute a waiver of their right to protest the
award of the contract.
The Superintendent or designee shall review the documents submitted with the bidder's claims and render a decision
in writing within 30 working days. The Superintendent or designee may also convene a meeting with the bidder in
order to attempt to resolve the problem.
The bidder may appeal the Superintendent or designee's decision to the Board.The Superintendent or designee shall
provide reasonable notice to the bidder of the time for Board consideration of the contract award. The Board's
decision shall be final.

================================================================================
REFERENCES
================================================================================

State References:
  - Bus. Code 7056
  - General engineering contractor
  - Bus. Code 7057
  - General building contractor
  - CA Constitution, Article 2, Section 31(a)
  - Prohibition of discrimination in operation of public education
  - Code of Civil Procedure 446
  - Verification of pleadings
  - Ed. Code 17070.10-17079.30
  - Leroy F. Greene School Facilities Act
  - Ed. Code 17250.10-17250.52
  - Design-build contracts
  - Ed. Code 17250.60-17250.69
  - Alternative design-build contracts
  - Ed. Code 17400
  - Leasing Property
  - Ed. Code 17406
  - Lease-leaseback contract
  - Ed. Code 17595
  - Purchase of supplies through Department of General Services
  - Ed. Code 17602
  - Purchase of surplus property from

Management Resources:
  - Attorney General Opinion
  - 89 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 1 (2006)
  - CA Department of General Services Publication
  - Office of Public School Construction, Piggyback Contracts
  - CA Department of General Services Publication
  - Office of Public School Construction Notification to School Districts
  - Regarding Use of Piggyback Contracts for SAB-Administered Programs, July
  - 2022
  - CA Department of Industrial Relations Publication Model Prequalification Questionnaire
  - Court Decision
  - City of Inglewood-Los Angeles County Civic Center Authority v. Superior
  - Court (1972) 7 Cal.3d 861
  - Court Decision
  - Great West Contractors Inc. v. Irvine Unified School District (2010) 187
  - Cal.App.4th 1425
  - Court Decision
  - Konica Business Machines v. Regents of the University of California (1988)
  - 206 Cal.App.3d 449
  - Court Decision
  - Los Angeles Unified School District v. Great American Insurance Co. (2010)
  - 49 Cal.4th 739
  - Court Decision
  - Marshall v. Pasadena Unified School District (2004) 119 Cal.App.4th 1241
  - Website
  - CSBA District and County Office of Education Legal Services
  - Website
  - California Department of General Services
  - Website
  - CSBA
  - Website
  - California Department of Education
  - Website
  - California Association of School Business Officials
  - 70
