RCSD Regulation 5125
================================================================================
Title: Student Records
Status: ADOPTED
Original Adopted Date: 02/15/2017
Last Reviewed Date: 06/27/2018
Source: RCSD Policies 5000.pdf (Pages 108, 109, 110, 111, 112, 113, 114, 115, 116, 117, 118, 119, 120, 121, 122)
================================================================================

Definitions
Student means any individual who is or has been in attendance at the district and for whom the district maintains
student records. (34 CFR 99.3)
Attendance includes, but is not limited to, attendance in person or by paper correspondence, videoconference,
satellite, Internet, or other electronic information and telecommunication technologies for students who are not
physically present in the classroom, and the period during which a person is working under a work-study program.
(34 CFR 99.3)
Student records are any items of information (in handwriting, print, tape, film, computer, or other medium) gathered
within or outside the district that are directly related to an identifiable student and maintained by the district,
required to be maintained by an employee in the performance of their duties, or maintained by a party acting for the
district. Any information maintained for the purpose of second-party review is considered a student record. Student
records include the student's health record. (Education Code 49061, 49062; 5 CCR 430; 34 CFR 99.3)
Student records do not include: (Education Code 49061, 49062; 5 CCR 430; 34 CFR 99.3)
1. Directory information.
 
2. Informal notes compiled by a school officer or employee which remain in the sole possession of the maker, are
used only as a personal memory aid, and are not accessible or revealed to any other person except a substitute
employee.
 
3. Records of the law enforcement unit of the district, subject to 34 CFR 99.8.
 
4. Records created or received by the district after an individual is no longer a student and that are not directly
related to the individual's attendance as a student.
 
5. Grades on peer-graded papers before they are collected and recorded by a teacher.
Mandatory permanent student records are those records that are maintained in perpetuity and which schools have
been directed to compile by state law, regulation, or administrative directive. (5 CCR 430)
Mandatory interim student records are those records that the schools are directed to compile and maintain for
specified periods of time and are then destroyed in accordance with state law, regulation, or administrative directive.
(5 CCR 430)
Permitted student records are those records having clear importance only to the current educational process of the
student. (5 CCR 430)
Disclosure means to permit access to, or the release, transfer, or other communication of, personally identifiable
information contained in student records to any party, except the party that provided or created the record, by any
means including oral, written, or electronic.
Access means a personal inspection and review of a record or an accurate copy of a record, or receipt of an accurate
copy of a record or an oral description or communication of a record, and a request to release a copy of any record.
(Education Code 49061)
Personally identifiable information includes, but is not limited to: (34 CFR 99.3)
1. The student's name.
 
2. The name of the student's parent/guardian or other family members.
 
3. The address of the student or student's family.
 
4. A personal identifier, such as the student's social security number, student number, or biometric record (e.g.,
fingerprints, retina and iris patterns, voiceprints, DNA sequence, facial characteristics, and handwriting).
Board Policy Manual
Redwood City School District

5. Other indirect identifiers, such as the student's date of birth, place of birth, and mother's maiden name.
 
6. Other information that, alone or in combination, is linked or linkable to a specific student that would allow a
reasonable person in the school community, who does not have personal knowledge of the relevant
circumstances, to identify the student with reasonable certainty.
 
7. Information requested by a person who the district reasonably believes knows the identity of the student to
whom the student record relates.
Adult student is a person who is or was enrolled in school and who is at least 18 years of age.
Parent/guardian means a natural parent, an adopted parent, legal guardian, surrogate parent, or foster parent.
(Education Code 49061, 56050, 56055)
Legitimate educational interest is an interest held by any school official, employee, contractor, or consultant whose
duties, responsibilities, or contractual obligations to the district, whether routine or as a result of special
circumstances, require them to have access to student records.
School officials and employees are officials or employees whose duties and responsibilities to the district, whether
routine or as a result of special circumstances, require that they have access to student records.
Contractor or consultant is anyone with a formal written agreement or contract with the district regarding the
provision of services or functions outsourced to them by the district. Contractor or consultant shall not include a
volunteer or other party. (Education Code 49076)
Custodian of records is the employee responsible for the security of student records maintained by the district and for
devising procedures for assuring that access to such records is limited to authorized persons. (5 CCR 433)
County placing agency means the county social service department or county probation department. (Education Code
49061)
Persons Granted Absolute Access
In accordance with law, absolute access to any student records shall be granted to:
1. Parents/guardians of students younger than age 18 years, including the parent who is not the student's
custodial parent (Education Code 49069; Family Code 3025)
 
2. An adult student, or a student under the age of 18 years who attends a postsecondary institution, in which
case the student alone shall exercise rights related to their student records and grant consent for the release of
records (34 CFR 99.3, 99.5)
 
3. Parents/guardians of an adult student with disabilities who is age 18 years or older and has been declared
incompetent under state law (Education Code 56041.5)
Access for Limited Purpose/Legitimate Educational Interest
The following persons or agencies shall have access to those particular records that are relevant to their legitimate
educational interest or other legally authorized purpose:
1. Parents/guardians of a student age 18 or older who is a dependent child as defined under 26
 
2. Students who are age 16 or older or who have completed the 10th grade
 
3. School officials and employees, consistent with the definition provided in the section "Definitions" above
 
4. Members of a school attendance review board (SARB) who are authorized representatives of the district and
any volunteer aide age 18 or older who has been investigated, selected, and trained by the SARB to provide
follow-up services to a referred
 
5. Officials and employees of other public schools, school systems, or postsecondary institutions where the
student intends or is directed to enroll, including local, county, or state correctional facilities where educational
programs leading to high school graduation are provided, or where the student is already enrolled, as long as

the disclosure is for purposes related to the student's enrollment or transfer
Unless the annual parent/guardian notification issued pursuant to Education Code 48980 includes a statement
that the district may disclose students' personally identifiable information to officials of another school, school
system, or postsecondary institution where the student seeks or intends to enroll, the Superintendent or
designee shall, when such a disclosure is made, make a reasonable attempt to notify the parent/guardian or
adult student at their last known address, provide a copy of the record that is disclosed, and give the
parent/guardian or adult student an opportunity for a hearing to challenge the record. (34 CFR 99.34)
 
6. The Student Aid Commission, for the purpose of providing the grade point average (GPA) of all district
students in grade 12, and subsequently providing verification of high school graduation or its equivalent of all
students who graduated in the prior academic year, for us in the Cal Grant postsecondary financial aid
program. However, such information shall not be submitted when students opt out or are permitted by the
rules of the Student Aid Commission to provide test scores in lieu of the GPA. (Education Code 69432.9,
69432.92)
No later than October 15 each year, the Superintendent or designee shall notify each student in grade 12, and
their parents/guardians if the student is under age 18 years, that the student's GPA will be forwarded to the
Student Aid Commission unless they opt out within a period of time specified in the notice, which shall not be
less than 30 days.
Students' social security numbers shall not be included in the submitted information unless the Student Aid
Commission deems it necessary to complete the financial aid application and the Superintendent or designee
obtains permission from the student's parent/guardian, or from the adult student, to submit the social security
number. (Education Code 69432.9)
 
7. Federal, state, and local officials, as needed for an audit, evaluation, or compliance activity related to a state or
federally funded education program and in accordance with a written agreement developed pursuant to 34
CFR 99.35. (Education Code 49076; 34 CFR 99.3,99.31, 99.35)
 
8. Any county placing agency acting as an authorized representative of a state or local educational agency which
is required to audit or evaluate a state or federally supported education program pursuant to item #7 above.
(Education Code 49076)
 
9. Any person, agency, or organization authorized in compliance with a court order or lawfully issued subpoena.
(Education Code 49077; 5 CCR 435; 34 CFR 99.31)
Unless otherwise instructed by the court, the Superintendent or designee shall, prior to disclosing a record
pursuant to a court order or subpoena, give the parent/guardian or adult student at least three days' notice of
the name of the requesting agency and the specific record requested, if lawfully possible within the
requirements of the judicial order. (Education Code 49077; 5 CCR 435; 34 CFR 99.31)
 
10. Any district attorney who is participating in or conducting a truancy mediation program or participating in the
presentation of evidence in a truancy petition. (Education Code 49076)
 
11. A district attorney's office for consideration against a parent/guardian for failure to comply with compulsory
education laws. (Education Code 49076)
 
12. Any probation officer, district attorney, or counsel of record for a minor student for the purposes of
conducting a criminal investigation or an investigation in regards to declaring the minor student a ward of the
court or involving a violation of a condition of probation, subject to evidentiary rules specified in Welfare and
Institutions Code 701.
When disclosing records for these purposes, the Superintendent or designee shall obtain written certification
from the recipient of the records that the information will not be disclosed to another party without prior
written consent of the student's parent/guardian or the holder of the student's educational rights, unless
specifically authorized by state or federal law. (Education Code 49076)
 
13. Any judge or probation officer for the purpose of conducting a truancy mediation program for a student or for
the purpose of presenting evidence in a truancy petition pursuant to Welfare and Institutions Code 681.
(Education Code 49076)

In such cases, the judge or probation officer shall certify in writing to the Superintendent or designee that the
information will be used only for truancy purposes. Upon releasing student information to a judge or probation
officer, the Superintendent or designee shall inform, or provide written notification to, the student's
parent/guardian within 24 hours.
 
14. Foster family agency with jurisdiction over a currently enrolled or former student; short-term residential
treatment program staff responsible for the education or case management of a student; or a caregiver who
has direct responsibility for the care of a student, including a certified or licensed foster parent, an approved
relative or nonrelated extended family member, or a resource family, as defined. (Education Code 49076
Such individuals shall have access to the student's current or most recent records of grades, transcripts,
attendance, discipline, online communication on platforms established by schools for students and
parents/guardians, and any individualized education program or Section 504 plan developed and maintained by
the district. (Education Code 49069.3)
 
15. A student age 14 years or older who is both a homeless student and an unaccompanied minor as defined in 42
USC 11434a. (Education Code 49076)
 
16. An individual who completes items 1-4 of the caregiver's authorization affidavit pursuant to Family Code 6552
and signs the affidavit for the purpose of enrolling a minor in school. (Education Code 49076)
 
17. A caseworker or other representative of a state or local child welfare agency or tribal organization that has
legal responsibility for the care and protection of a student, provided that the information is directly related to
providing assistance to address the student's educational needs. (Education Code 49076; 20 USC 1232(g)
 
18. Appropriate law enforcement authorities, in circumstances where Education Code 48902 requires that the
district provide special education and disciplinary records of a student with disabilities who is suspended or
expelled for committing an act violating Penal Code 245. (Education Code 48902, 49076)
When disclosing such records, the Superintendent or designee shall obtain written certification by the recipient
of the records as described in item #12 above.
 
19. Designated peace officers or law enforcement agencies in cases where the district is authorized by law to
assist law enforcement in investigations of suspected criminal conduct or kidnapping and a written parental
consent, lawfully issued subpoena, or court order is submitted to the district, or information is provided to it
indicating that an emergency exists in which the student's information is necessary to protect the health or
safety of the student or other individuals. (Education Code 49076.5; 34 CFR 99.1-99.67)
In such cases, the Superintendent or designee shall provide information about the identity and location of the
student as it relates to the transfer of that student's records to another public school district or California private
school. (Education Code 49076.5)
When disclosing records for the above purposes, the Superintendent or designee shall obtain the necessary
documentation to verify that the person, agency, or organization is a person, agency, or organization that is
permitted to receive such records.
Any person, agency, or organization granted access is prohibited from releasing information to another person,
agency, or organization without written permission from the parent/guardian or adult student unless specifically
allowed by state law or the federal Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act. (Education Code 49076)
In addition, the parent/guardian or adult student may provide written consent for access to be granted to persons,
agencies, or organizations not afforded access rights by law. The written consent shall specify the records to be
released and the party or parties to whom they may be released. (Education Code 49075)
Only a parent/guardian having legal custody of the student may consent to the release of records to others. Either
parent/guardian may grant consent if both parents/guardians notify the district, in writing, that such an agreement
has been made. (Education Code 49061)
Discretionary Access
At their discretion, the Superintendent or designee may release information from a student's records to the
following:

1. Appropriate persons, including parents/guardians of a student, in an emergency if the health and safety of the
student or other persons are at stake.
When releasing information to any such appropriate person, the Superintendent or designee shall record
information about the threat to the health or safety of the student or any other person that formed the basis
for the disclosure and the person(s) to whom the disclosure was made. (Education Code 49076; 34 CFR 99.32)
Unless it would further endanger the health or safety of the student or other persons, the Superintendent or
designee shall inform the parent/guardian or adult student within one week of the disclosure that the
disclosure was made, of the articulable and significant threat to the health or safety of the student or other
individuals that formed the basis for the disclosure, and of the parties to whom the disclosure was made.
 
2. Accrediting associations. (Education Code 49076; 34 CFR 99.31)
 
3. Under the conditions specified in Education Code 49076 and 34 CFR 99.31, organizations conducting studies
on behalf of educational institutions or agencies for the purpose of developing, validating, or administering
predictive tests, administering student aid programs, or improving instruction, provided that: (Education Code
49076; 34 CFR 99.31)
 
a. The study is conducted in a manner that does not permit personal identification of parents/guardians
and students by individuals other than representatives of the organization who have legitimate interests
in the information.
 
b. The information is destroyed when no longer needed for the purposes for which the study is conducted.
 
c. The district enters into a written agreement with the organization that complies with 34 CFR 99.31.
 
4. Officials and employees of private schools or school systems where the student is enrolled or intends to enroll,
subject to the rights of parents/guardians as provided in Education Code 49068 and in compliance with 34
CFR 99.34.
 
5. Local health departments operating countywide or regional immunization information and reminder systems
and the California Department of Public Health, unless the parent/guardian has requested that no disclosures
of this type be made.
 
6. Contractors and consultants having a legitimate educational interest based on services or functions which have
been outsourced to them through a formal written agreement or contract by the district, excluding volunteers
or other parties. (Education Code 49076)
 
7. Agencies or organizations in connection with the student's application for or receipt of financial aid, provided
that information permitting the personal identification of a student or their parents/guardians for these
purposes is disclosed only as may be necessary to determine the eligibility of the student for financial aid,
determine the amount of financial aid, determine the conditions which will be imposed regarding the financial
aid, or enforce the terms or conditions of the financial aid. (Education Code 49076; 34 CFR 99.31, 99.36)
 
8. County elections officials for the purpose of identifying students eligible to register to vote or offering such
students an opportunity to register, subject to the provisions of 34 CFR 99.37 and under the condition that
any information provided on this basis shall not be used for any other purpose or transferred to any other
person or agency. (Education Code 49076; 34 CFR 99.31, 99.37)
When disclosing records for the above purposes, the Superintendent or designee shall obtain the necessary
documentation to verify that the person, agency, or organization is a person, agency, or organization that is
permitted to receive such records.
De-identification of Records
When authorized by law for any program audit, educational research, or other purposes, the Superintendent or
designee may release information from a student record without prior consent of the parent/guardian or adult
student after the removal of all personally identifiable information. Prior to releasing such information, the
Superintendent or designee shall make a reasonable determination that the student's identity is not personally
identifiable, whether through single or multiple releases and taking into account other reasonably available
information. (Education Code 49074, 49076; 34 CFR 99.31)

Process for Providing Access to Records
Student records shall be maintained in a central file at the school attended by the student or, when records are
maintained at different locations, a notation shall be placed in the central file indicating where other records may be
found. Parents/guardians shall be notified of the location of student records if not centrally located. (Education Code
49069; 5 CCR 433)
The custodian of records shall be responsible for the security of student records and shall ensure that access is
limited to authorized persons. (5 CCR 433)
The custodian of records shall develop reasonable methods, including physical, technological, and administrative
controls, to ensure that school officials and employees obtain access to only those student records in which they
have legitimate educational interests. (34 CFR 99.31)
To inspect, review, or obtain copies of student records, authorized persons shall submit a request to the custodian of
records. Prior to granting the request, the custodian of records shall authenticate the individual's identity. For any
individual granted access based on a legitimate educational interest, the request shall specify the interest involved.
When required by law, the parent/guardian shall provide written, signed, and dated consent before the district
discloses the student record. Such consent may be given through electronic means in those cases where it can be
authenticated. The district's consent form shall specify the records that may be disclosed, state the purpose of the
disclosure, and identify the party or class of parties to whom the disclosure may be made. Upon request by the
parent/guardian, the district shall provide them a copy of the records disclosed. (34 CFR 99.30)
If the parent/guardian refuses to provide written consent for the release of student information, the Superintendent
or designee shall not release the information, unless it is otherwise subject to release based on a court order or a
lawful subpoena.
Within five business days following the date of request, a parent/guardian or other authorized person shall be
granted access to inspect, review, and obtain copies of student records during regular school hours. (Education Code
49069)
Qualified certificated personnel shall be available to interpret records when requested. (Education Code 49069)
The custodian of records or the Superintendent or designee shall prevent the alteration, damage, or loss of records
during inspection. (5 CCR 435)
Access Log
A log shall be maintained for each student's record that lists all persons, agencies, or organizations requesting or
receiving information from the records and the legitimate educational interest of the requester. (Education Code
49064)
In every instance of inspection by persons who do not have assigned educational responsibility, the custodian of
records shall make an entry in the log indicating the record inspected, the name of the person granted access, the
reason access was granted, and the time and circumstances of inspection. (5 CCR 435)
The log may include record of access by: (Education Code 49064)
1. Parents/guardians or adult students.
 
2. Students who are 16 years of age or older or who have completed the 10th grade.
 
3. Parties obtaining district-approved directory information.
 
4. Parties who provide written parental consent, in which case the consent notice shall be filed with the record
pursuant to Education Code 49075.
 
5. School officials and employees who have a legitimate educational interest.
 
6. Law enforcement personnel seeking to enforce immigration laws.
The log shall be accessible only to the parent/guardian, adult student, dependent adult student, student who is age
16 years or older or who has completed the 10th grade, custodian of records, and certain state or federal officials.

(Education Code 49064; 5 CCR 432)
Duplication of Student Records
To provide copies of any student record, the district shall charge a reasonable fee not to exceed the actual cost of
providing the copies. No charge shall be made for providing up to two transcripts or up to two verifications of
various records for any former student. No charge shall be made to locate or retrieve any student record. (Education
Code 49065)
Changes to Student Records
Only a parent/guardian having legal custody of a student or an adult student may challenge the content of a record
or offer a written response to a record. (Education Code 49061)
No additions except routine updating shall be made to a student's record after high school graduation or permanent
departure without prior consent of the parent/guardian or adult student. (5 CCR 437)
A student's legal name or gender as entered on the mandatory student record required pursuant to 5 CCR 432 shall
only be changed with proper documentation. However, at the written request of a student or, if appropriate, their
parents/guardians, the district shall use the student's preferred name and pronouns consistent with their gender
identity on all other district-related documents.
Retention and Destruction of Student Records
All anecdotal information and assessment reports maintained as student records shall be dated and signed by the
individual who originated the data. (5 CCR 431)
The following mandatory permanent student records shall be kept indefinitely: (5 CCR 432, 437)
1. Legal name of student
 
2. Date and place of birth and method of verifying birth date
 
3. Sex of student
 
4. Name and address of parent/guardian of minor student
 
a. Address of minor student if different from the above
 
b. Annual verification of parent/guardian's name and address and student's residence
 
5. Entrance and departure dates of each school year and for any summer session or other extra session
 
6. Subjects taken during each year, half-year, summer session, or quarter, and marks or credits given
 
7. Verification of or exemption from required immunizations
 
8. Date of high school graduation or equivalent
Mandatory interim student records, unless forwarded to another district, shall be maintained subject to destruction
during the third school year after the school year in which they originated, following a determination that their
usefulness has ceased or the student has left the district. These records include: (Education Code 48918, 51747; 5
CCR 432, 437, 16027)
1. Expulsion orders and the causes therefor.
 
2. A log identifying persons or agencies who request or receive information from the student record.
 
3. Health information, including verification or waiver of the health screening for school entry.
 
4. Information on participation in special education programs, including required tests, case studies,
authorizations, and evidence of eligibility for admission or discharge.
 

5. Language training records.
 
6. Progress slips/notices required by Education Code 49066 and 49067.
 
7. Parental restrictions/stipulations regarding access to directory information.
 
8. Parent/guardian or adult student rejoinders to challenged records and to disciplinary action.
 
9. Parent/guardian authorization or denial of student participation in specific programs.
 
10. Results of standardized tests administered within the past three years.
 
11. Written findings resulting from an evaluation conducted after a specified number of missed assignments to
determine whether it is in a student's best interest to remain in independent study.
Permitted student records may be destroyed six months after the student completes or withdraws from the
educational program, including: (5 CCR 432, 437)
1. Objective counselor and/or teacher ratings
 
2. Standardized test results older than three years
 
3. Routine disciplinary data
 
4. Verified reports of relevant behavioral patterns
 
5. All disciplinary notices
 
6. Supplementary attendance records
Records shall be destroyed in a way that assures they will not be available to possible public inspection in the
process of destruction. (5 CCR 437)
Transfer of Student Records
When a student transfers into this district from any other school district or a private school, the Superintendent or
designee shall inform the student's parent/guardian of their rights regarding student records, including the right to
review, challenge, and receive a copy of student records. (Education Code 49068; 5 CCR 438)
When a student transfers into this district from another district, the Superintendent or designee shall request that
the student's previous district provide any records, either maintained by that district in the ordinary course of
business or received from a law enforcement agency, regarding acts committed by the transferring student that
resulted in their suspension or expulsion. (Education Code 48201)
When a student transfers from this district to another school district or to a private school, the Superintendent or
designee shall forward a copy of the student's mandatory permanent record within 10 school days of the district's
receipt of the request for the student's records. The original record or a copy shall be retained permanently by this
district. If the transfer is to another California public school, the student's entire mandatory interim record shall also
be forwarded. If the transfer is out of state or to a private school, the mandatory interim record may be forwarded.
Permitted student records may be forwarded to any other district or private school. (Education Code 48918, 49068;
5 CCR 438)
Upon receiving a request from a county placing agency to transfer a student in foster care out of a district school,
the Superintendent or designee shall transfer the student's records to the next educational placement within two
business days. (Education Code 49069.5)
All student records shall be updated before they are transferred. (5 CCR 438)
Student records shall not be withheld from the requesting district because of any charges or fees owed by the
student or parent/guardian. (5 CCR 438)
If the district is withholding grades, diploma, or transcripts from the student because of their damage or loss of
school property, this information shall be sent to the requesting district along with the student's records.

Notification of Parents/Guardians
Upon any student's initial enrollment, and at the beginning of each school year thereafter, the Superintendent or
designee shall notify parents/guardians and eligible students, in writing, of their rights related to student records. If
15 percent or more of the students enrolled in the district speak a single primary language other than English, then
the district shall provide these notices to that language. Otherwise, the district shall provide these notices in the
student's home language insofar as practicable. The district shall effectively notify parents/guardians or eligible
students with disabilities. (Education Code 49063, 48985; 34 CFR 99.7)
The notice shall include:
1. The types of student records kept by the district and the information contained therein.
 
2. The title(s) of the official(s) responsible for maintaining each type of record.
 
3. The location of the log identifying those who request information from the records.
 
4. District criteria for defining school officials and employees and for determining legitimate educational interest.
 
5. District policies for reviewing and expunging student records.
 
6. The right to inspect and review student records and the procedures for doing so.
 
7. The right to challenge and the procedures for challenging the content of a student record that the
parent/guardian or student believes to be inaccurate, misleading, or otherwise in violation of the student's
privacy rights.
 
8. The cost, if any, charged for duplicating copies of records.
 
9. The categories of information defined as directory information pursuant to Education Code 49073.
 
10. The right to consent to disclosures of personally identifiable information contained in the student's records
except when disclosure without consent is authorized by law.
 
11. Availability of the curriculum prospectus developed pursuant to Education Code 49091.14 containing the
titles, descriptions, and instructional aims of every course offered by the school.
 
12. Any other rights and requirements set forth in Education Code 49060-49078, and the right of
parents/guardians to file a complaint with the U.S. Department of Education concerning an alleged failure by
the district to comply with 20 USC 1232g.
 
13. A statement that the district forwards education records to other agencies or institutions that request the
records and in which the student seeks or intends to enroll or is already enrolled as long as the disclosure is for
purposes related to the student's enrollment.
In addition, the annual parental notification shall include a statement that a student's citizenship status, immigration
status, place of birth, or any other information indicating national origin will not be released without parental consent
or a court order.
Student Records from Social Media
For the purpose of gathering and maintaining records of students' social media activity, the Superintendent or
designee shall: (Education Code 49073.6)
1. Gather or maintain only information that pertains directly to school safety or student safety.
 
2. Provide a student with access to any information that the district obtained from their social media activity and
an opportunity to correct or delete such information.
 
3. Destroy information gathered from social media and maintained in student records within one year after a
student turns 18 years of age or within one year after the student is no longer enrolled in the district,
whichever occurs first.
 

Policy Reference Disclaimer:
4. Notify each parent/guardian that the student's information is being gathered from social media and that any
information maintained in the student's records shall be destroyed as provided in item #3 above. The
notification shall also include, but is not limited to, an explanation of the process by which a student or their
parent/guardian may access the student's records for examination of the information gathered or maintained
and the process by which removal of the information may be requested or corrections to the information may
be made. The notification may be provided as part of the annual parental notification required pursuant to
Education Code 48980.
 
5. If the district contracts with a third party to gather information on a student from social media, ensure that the
contract:
 
a. Prohibits the third party from using the information for purposes other than those specified in the
contract or from selling or sharing the information with any person or entity other than the district, the
student, or their parent/guardian.
 
b. Requires the third party to destroy the information immediately upon satisfying the terms of the
contract, or when the district notifies the third party that the student has turned 18 years of age or is no
longer enrolled in the district, whichever occurs first.

================================================================================
REFERENCES
================================================================================

State References:
  - 5 CCR 16020-16027
  - Destruction of records of school districts
  - 5 CCR 430-438
  - Individual student records
  - Bus. and Prof. Code 22580-22582
  - Privacy rights for California minors in the digital world
  - Bus. and Prof. Code 22584-22585
  - K-12 Pupil Online Personal Information Protection Act
  - Bus. and Prof. Code 22586-22587
  - Early Learning Personal Information Protection Act
  - Code of Civil Procedure 1985.3
  - Subpoena duces tecum
  - Ed. Code 17604
  - Delegation of powers to agents
  - Ed. Code 220.3
  - Prohibition for employee or contractor to disclose information related to
  - student’s sexual orientation, gender identity, or gender expression
  - Ed. Code 234.7
  - Student protections relating to immigration and citizenship status
  - Ed. Code 35266
  - Reporting of cyberattacks
  - Ed. Code 48201
  - Transfer student's record for acts that resulted in suspension or expulsion
  - Ed. Code 48853.5
  - Foster youth; placement, immunizations
  - Ed. Code 48902
  - Notification of law enforcement of specified violations
  - Ed. Code 48904-48904.3
  - Withholding grades, diplomas, or transcripts
  - Ed. Code 48918
  - Rules governing expulsion procedures
  - Ed. Code 48980
  - Parent/Guardian notifications
  - Ed. Code 48985
  - Notices to parents in language other than English
  - Ed. Code 49060-49079
  - Student records
  - Ed. Code 49091.14
  - Parental review of curriculum
  - Ed. Code 51745
  - Independent study
  - Ed. Code 56041.5
  - Rights of students with disabilities
  - Ed. Code 56050
  - Surrogate parents
  - Ed. Code 56055
  - Foster parents
  - Ed. Code 60900-60901
  - California Longitudinal Pupil Achievement Data System
  - 117
  - Ed. Code 69432.9
  - Cal Grant program; notification of grade point average
  - Ed. Code 69475
  - Conditional repeal of Cal Grant program
  - Fam. Code 3025
  - Access to records by noncustodial parents
  - Fam. Code 6323.5
  - Ex parte orders
  - Fam. Code 6552
  - Caregiver's authorization affidavit
  - Gov. Code 7920.000-7930.215
  - California Public Records Act
  - H&S Code 120440
  - Immunizations; disclosure of information
  - Pen. Code 245
  - Assault with deadly weapon
  - W&I Code 16010
  - Health and education records of a minor
  - W&I Code 681
  - Truancy petitions
  - W&I Code 701
  - Juvenile court law
  - State

Federal References:
  - 15 USC 6501-6506
  - Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act
  - 16 CFR Part 312
  - Children's Online Privacy Protection Rule
  - 20 USC 1232g
  - Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) of 1974
  - 20 USC 1232h
  - Protection of Pupil Rights Amendment
  - 26 USC 152
  - Definition of dependent child
  - 34 CFR 300.501
  - Opportunity to examine records for parents of student with disability
  - 34 CFR 99.1-99.8
  - Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act
  - 42 USC 11434a
  - McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act; definitions

Management Resources:
  - CA Office of the Attorney General Publication
  - Promoting a Safe and Secure Learning Environment for All: Guidance and
  - Model Policies to Assist California's K-12 Schools in Responding to
  - Immigration Issues, December 2024
  - CSBA Publication
  - Understanding Artificial Intelligence in K-12 Education: What Governance
  - Teams Should Know, September 2023
  - CSBA Publication
  - Legal Guidance on Providing All Children Equal Access to Education,
  - Regardless of Immigration Status, February 2017
