RCSD Regulation 5144.1
================================================================================
Title: Suspension And Expulsion/Due Process
Status: ADOPTED
Original Adopted Date: 01/13/2010
Last Reviewed Date: 12/08/2021
Source: RCSD Policies 5000.pdf (Pages 353, 354, 355, 356, 357, 358, 359, 360, 361, 362, 363, 364, 365, 366, 367, 368, 369)
================================================================================

Definitions
Suspension means removal of a student from ongoing instruction for adjustment purposes. However, suspension does not
mean any of the following: (Education Code 48925)
1. Reassignment to another education program or class at the same school where the student will receive
continuing instruction for the length of day prescribed by the Governing Board for students of the same grade
level
 
2. Referral to a certificated employee designated by the principal to advise students
 
3. Removal from the class, but without reassignment to another class or program, for the remainder of the class period
without sending the student to the principal or designee as provided in Education Code 48910. Removal from a
particular class shall not occur more than once every five school days.
Expulsion means removal of a student from the immediate supervision and control, or the general supervision, of school
personnel. (Education Code 48925)
Notice of Regulations
At the beginning of each school year, the principal of each school shall ensure that all students and parents/guardians are
notified in writing of all school rules related to discipline, suspension and expulsion. (Education Code 48900.1, 48980)
Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8
Acts for which a student, including a student with disabilities, may be suspended or expelled shall be only those specified as
follows and in the sections "Additional Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades 4-8" below:
1. Caused, attempted to cause, or threatened to cause physical injury to another person, willfully used force or
violence upon the person of another, except in self-defense; or committed as an aider or abettor, as adjudged
by a juvenile court, a crime of physical violence in which the victim suffered great or serious bodily injury 
(Education Code 48900(a) and (t))
 
2. Possessed, sold, or otherwise furnished any firearm, knife, explosive, or other dangerous object unless, in the case of
possession of any object of this type, the student had obtained written permission to possess the item from a
certificated school employee, with the principal or designee's concurrence. (Education Code 48900(b))
 
3. Unlawfully possessed, used, sold, or otherwise furnished, or was under the influence of, any controlled substance as
defined in Health and Safety Code 11053-11058, alcoholic beverage, or intoxicant of any kind. (Education Code
48900(c))
 
4. Unlawfully offered, arranged, or negotiated to sell any controlled substance as defined in Health and Safety Code
11053-11058, alcoholic beverage or intoxicant of any kind, and then sold, delivered or otherwise furnished to any
person another liquid, substance or material and represented same as controlled substance, alcohol beverage, or
intoxicant. (Education Code 48900(d))
 
5. Committed or attempted to commit robbery or extortion. (Education Code 48900(e))
 
6. Caused or attempted to cause damage to school property or private property. (Education Code 48900(f))
 
7. Stole or attempted to steal school property or private property. (Education Code 48900(g))
 
8. Possessed or used tobacco or any products containing tobacco or nicotine products, including but not limited to cigars,
cigarettes, miniature cigars, clove cigarettes, smokeless tobacco, snuff, chew packets, and betel. This restriction shall
not prohibit a student from using or possessing their own prescription products. (Education Code 48900(h))
 
9. Committed an obscene act or engaged in habitual profanity or vulgarity. (Education Code 48900(i))
Board Policy Manual
Redwood City School District

10. Unlawfully possessed or unlawfully offered, arranged, or negotiated to sell any drug paraphernalia, as defined in Health
and Safety Code 11014.5. (Education Code 48900(j))
 
11. Knowingly received stolen school property or private property. (Education Code 48900(l))
 
12. Possessed an imitation firearm.
Imitation firearm means a replica of a firearm that is so substantially similar in physical properties to an existing firearm
as to lead a reasonable person to conclude that the replica is a firearm. (Education Code 48900(m))
 
13. Committed or attempted to commit a sexual assault as defined in Penal Code 261, 266c, 286, 288, 288a, or 289, or
committed a sexual battery as defined in Penal Code 243.4. (Education Code 48900(n))
 
14. Harassed, threatened, or intimidated a student who is a complaining witness or witness in a school disciplinary
proceeding for the purpose of preventing that student from being a witness and/or retaliating against that student for
being a witness. (Education Code 48900(o))
 
15. Unlawfully offered, arranged to sell, negotiated to sell, or sold the prescription drug Soma. (Education Code 48900(p))
 
16. Engaged in, or attempted to engage in, hazing. (Education Code 48900(q))
Hazing means a method of initiation or pre-initiation into a student organization or body, whether or not the
organization or body is officially recognized by an educational institution, which is likely to cause serious bodily injury
or personal degradation or disgrace resulting in physical or mental harm to a former, current, or prospective student.
Hazing does not include athletic events or school-sanctioned events. (Education Code 48900(q))
 
17. Engaged in an act of bullying (Education Code 48900(r)) 
Bullying means any severe or pervasive physical or verbal act or conduct, including communications made in writing or
by means of an electronic act, directed toward one or more students that has or can reasonably be predicted to have
the effect of placing a reasonable student in fear of harm to self or property; cause the student to experience a
substantially detrimental effect on physical or mental health; or cause the student to experience substantial
interferences with academic performance or ability to participate in or benefit from the services, activities, or privileges
provided by a school. (Education Code 48900(r))
Bullying includes any act of sexual harassment, hate violence, or harassment, threat, or intimidation, as defined in
Education Code 48900.2, 48900.3, or 48900.4 and below in the section "Additional Grounds for Suspension and
Expulsion: Grades 4-8," that has any of the effects described above on a reasonable student.
Bullying also includes an act of cyber sexual bullying by a student through the dissemination of, or the solicitation or
incitement to disseminate, a photograph or other visual recording that depicts a nude, semi-nude, or sexually explicit
photograph or other visual recording of an identifiable minor, when such dissemination is to another student or to
school personnel by means of an electronic act and has or can be reasonably predicted to have one or more of the
effects of bullying described above. Cyber sexual bullying does not include a depiction, portrayal, or image that has any
serious literary, artistic, educational, political, or scientific value or that involves athletic events or school-sanctioned
activities.
Electronic act means the creation or transmission originated on or off the school site by means of an electronic device,
including, but not limited to, a telephone, wireless telephone, or other wireless communication device, computer, or
pager, of a communication including, but not limited to: (Education Code 48900(r))
 
a. A message, text, sound, video, or image
 
b. A post on a social network Internet web site, including, but not limited to, posting to or creating a burn page or
creating a credible impersonation or false profile for the purpose of causing a reasonable student any of the
effects of bullying described above.
Reasonable student means a student, including, but not limited to, a student who has been identified as a student
with a disability, who exercises average care, skill, and judgment in conduct for a person of the student's age, or
for a person of the student's age and disability. (Education Code 48900(r))

18. Aided or abetted the infliction or attempted infliction of physical injury on another person, as defined in Penal Code 31
(Education Code 48900(t))
 
19. Made terrorist threats against school officials and/or school property. (Education Code 48900.7)
A terrorist threat includes any written or oral statement by a person who willfully threatens to commit a crime which will result
in death or great bodily injury to another person or property damage in excess of $1,000, with the specific intent that the
statement is to be taken as a threat, even if there is no intent of actually carrying it out. (Education Code 48900.7)
Additional Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades 4-8
A student in grades 4-8 shall be subject to suspension or recommendation for expulsion when it is determined that the
student:
1. Committed sexual harassment as defined in Education Code 212.5 (Education Code 48900.2)
Sexual harassment means conduct which, when considered from the perspective of a reasonable person of the
same gender as the victim, is sufficiently severe or pervasive as to have a negative impact upon the victim's
academic performance or to create an intimidating, hostile, or offensive educational environment. (Education
Code 212.5, 48900.2)
 
2. Caused, attempted to cause, threatened to cause, or participated in an act of hate violence as defined in
Education Code 233 (Education Code 48900.3)
Hate violence means any act punishable under Penal Code 422.6, 422.7, or 422.75. Such acts include injuring
or intimidating a victim, interfering with the exercise of a victim's civil rights, or damaging a victim's property
because of the victim's race, ethnicity, religion, nationality, disability, gender, gender identity, gender
expression, or sexual orientation; a perception of the presence of any of those characteristics in the victim; or
the victim's association with a person or group with one or more of those actual or perceived characteristics. 
(Education Code 233; Penal Code 422.55)
 
3. Intentionally engaged in harassment, threats, or intimidation against district personnel or students that is
sufficiently severe or pervasive to have the actual and reasonably expected effect of materially disrupting
classwork, creating substantial disorder, and invading the rights of school personnel or students by creating an
intimidating or hostile educational environment (Education Code 48900.4)
Suspension from Class by a Teacher
A teacher may suspend a student from class for the remainder of the day and the following day for any of the acts specified
in Education Code 48900 and listed as items #1-19 under "Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8" above or for
disruption or willful defiance at any grade level, including grades K-8. (Education Code 48910)
When suspending a student from class, the teacher shall immediately report this action to the principal or designee and send
the student to the principal or designee for appropriate action. If that action requires the continuing presence of the student
at school, the student shall be appropriately supervised during the class periods from which the student has been suspended. 
(Education Code 48910)
As soon as possible after the teacher decides to suspend the student, the teacher shall ask the student's parent/guardian to
attend a parent-teacher conference regarding the suspension. A counselor or psychologist may attend the conference if it is
practicable, and a school administrator shall attend if either the parent/guardian or teacher so requests. (Education Code
48910)
A student removed from class shall not be returned to class during the period of removal without the approval of the teacher
of the class and the principal. (Education Code 48910)
A student suspended from class shall not be placed in another regular class during the period of suspension. However, if a
student is assigned to more than one class per day, may continue to attend other regular classes except those held at the
same time as the class from which the student was suspended. (Education Code 48910)
The teacher of any class from which a student is suspended may require the student to complete any assignments and tests
missed during the removal. (Education Code 48913)

Suspension by Superintendent, Principal or Principal's Designee
To implement disciplinary procedures at a school site, the principal may, in writing, designate as the principal's designee
another administrator or, if the principal is the only administrator at the school site, a certificated employee. As necessary, the
principal may, in writing, also designate another administrator or certificated employee as the secondary designee to assist
with disciplinary procedures when the principal and the principal's primary designee are absent from the school site.
The Superintendent, principal, or designee shall immediately suspend any student found at school or at a school activity to
have committed any of the acts listed in the Board policy under "Authority to Expel" for which a recommendation of
expulsion is required. (Education Code 48915(c))
The Superintendent, principal, or designee may impose a suspension for a first offense if it is determined that the student
violated any of items #1-5 listed under "Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8" above or if the student's
presence causes a danger to persons. (Education Code 48900.5)
For all other offenses, a student may be suspended only when the Superintendent or principal has determined that other
means of correction have failed to bring about proper conduct. (Education Code 48900.5)
When other means of correction are implemented prior to imposing suspension or supervised suspension upon a student, the
Superintendent, principal, or designee shall document the other means of correction used and retain the documentation in
the student's record. (Education Code 48900.5)
Length of Suspension
The Superintendent, principal or designee may suspend a student from school for not more than five consecutive school
days. (Education Code 48911)
A student may be suspended from school for not more than 20 school days in any school year, However, if the student
enrolls in or is transferred to another regular school, an opportunity school, or continuation school or class for the purpose of
adjustment, the student may be suspended for not more than 30 days in any school year. The district may count suspensions
that occur while a student is enrolled in another school district toward the maximum number of days for which the student
may be suspended in any school year. (Education Code 48903, 48911, 48912)
However, this restriction on the number of days of suspension shall not apply when the suspension is extended pending an
expulsion. (Education Code 48911)
Due Process Procedures for Suspension
Suspensions shall be imposed in accordance with the following procedures:
1. Informal Conference: Suspension shall be preceded by an informal conference conducted by the principal,
designee, or the Superintendent with the student and, whenever practicable, the teacher, supervisor, or school
employee who referred the student to the principal. At the conference, the student shall be informed of the
reason for the disciplinary action, including the other means of correction that were attempted before the
suspension as required pursuant to Education Code 48900.5, and the evidence against the student, and shall
be given the opportunity to present the student’s version and evidence. (Education Code 48911)
This conference may be omitted if the principal, designee, or the Superintendent determines that an
emergency situation exists. An emergency situation involves a clear and present danger to the lives, safety, or
health of students or school personnel. If a student is suspended without this conference, both the
parent/guardian and student shall be notified of the student's right to return to school for the purpose of a
conference. The conference shall be held within two school days, unless the student waives the right to it or is
physically unable to attend for any reason. In such case, the conference shall be held as soon as the student is
physically able to return to school. (Education Code 48911)
 
2. Administrative Actions: All requests for student suspension are to be processed by the principal or designee. 
A school employee shall report the suspension, including the name of the student and the cause for the
suspension, to the Superintendent or designee.
 
3. Notice to Parents/Guardians: At the time of the suspension, a school employee shall make a reasonable effort
to contact the parent/guardian by telephone or in person. Whenever a student is suspended, the

parent/guardian shall be notified in writing of the suspension. (Education Code 48911)
This notice shall state the specific offense committed by the student. (Education Code 48900.8)
In addition, the notice may state the date and time when the student may return to school.
 
4. Parent/Guardian Conference: Whenever a student is suspended, school officials may request a meeting with
the parent/guardian to discuss the causes and duration of the suspension, the school policy involved and any
other pertinent matter. (Education Code 48914)
If school officials wish to ask the parent/guardian to confer regarding matters pertinent to the suspension, the
notice may add that state law requires the parent/guardian to respond to such requests without delay. While
the parent/guardian is required to respond without delay to a request for a conference about a student's
behavior, no penalties may be imposed on the student for the failure of the parent/guardian to attend such a
conference. The student may not be denied reinstatement solely because the parent/guardian failed to attend
the conference. (Education Code 48911)
 
5. Extension of Suspension: If the Board is considering the expulsion of a suspended student from any school or the
suspension of a student for the balance of the semester from continuation school, the Superintendent or designee may,
in writing, extend the suspension until such time as the Board has made a decision, provided the following
requirements are followed: (Education Code 48911(g))
 
a. Any extension of the original period of suspension shall be preceded by notice of such extension with an
offer to hold a conference concerning the extension, giving the student an opportunity to be heard. This
conference may be held in conjunction with a meeting requested by the student or parent/guardian to
challenge the original suspension. 
 
b. The Superintendent or designee determines, following a meeting in which the student and the student's
parent/guardian were invited to participate, that the student's presence at the school or at an alternative
school would endanger persons or property or threaten to disrupt the instructional process. (Education
Code 48911)
 
c. If the student involved is a foster youth, the Superintendent or designee shall notify the district liaison
for foster youth of the need to invite the student's attorney and a representative of the appropriate
county child welfare agency to attend the meeting. (Education Code 48853.5, 48911, 48918.1)
 
d. If the student involved is a homeless child or youth, the Superintendent or designee shall notify the district
liaison for homeless students. (Education Code 48918.1)
In lieu of or in addition to suspending a student, the Superintendent, principal, or designee may provide services or require
the student to participate in an alternative disciplinary program designed to correct the behavior and keep the student in
school.
Suspension by the Board
The Board may suspend a student for any of the acts listed in "Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8",
"Additional Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades 4-8," and within the limits specified in "Suspension by
Superintendent, Principal or Principal's Designee" above. (Education Code 48912)
The Board may suspend a student enrolled in a continuation school or class for a period not longer than the remainder of the
semester. The suspension shall meet the requirements of Education Code 48915. (Education Code 48912.5)
When the Board is considering a suspension, disciplinary action, or any other action (except expulsion) against any student, it
shall hold closed sessions if a public hearing would lead to disclosure of information violating a student's right to privacy
under Education Code 49073-49079. (Education Code 35146, 48912)
The Board shall provide the student and parent/guardian with written notice of the closed session by registered or certified
mail or personal service. Upon receiving this notice, the student or parent/guardian may request a public meeting, and this
request shall be granted if made in writing within 48 hours after receipt of the Board's notice. However, any discussion that
conflicts with any other student's right to privacy still shall be held in closed session. (Education Code 35146, 48912)
On-Campus Suspension

Students for whom an expulsion action has not been initiated and who pose no imminent danger or threat to the school,
students, or staff may be assigned to on-campus suspension in a separate classroom for the entire period of suspension. The
following conditions shall apply: (Education Code 48911.1)
1. The on-campus suspension classroom shall be staffed in accordance with law.
 
2. The student shall have access to appropriate counseling services.
 
3. The supervised suspension classroom shall promote completion of schoolwork and tests missed by the student during
the suspension.
 
4. The student shall be responsible for contacting the student’s teacher(s) to receive assignments to be completed in the
supervised suspension classroom. The teacher(s) shall provide all assignments and tests that the student will miss while
suspended. If no such work is assigned, the person supervising the suspension classroom shall assign schoolwork.
At the time a student is assigned to an on-campus suspension classroom, the principal or designee shall notify the student's
parent/guardian in person or by telephone. When the assignment is for longer than one class period, this notification shall be
made in writing. (Education Code 48911.1)
Superintendent or Principal's Authority to Recommend Expulsion
Unless the Superintendent or principal determines that expulsion should not be recommended due to particular
circumstances or that an alternative means of correction would address the conduct, the Superintendent or principal shall
recommend a student's expulsion for any of the following acts: (Education Code 48915(a))
1. Causing serious physical injury to another person, except in self-defense
 
2. Possession of any knife as defined in Education Code 48915(g), explosive, or other dangerous object of no reasonable
use to the student
 
3. Unlawful possession of any controlled substance, as listed in Health and Safety Code 11053-11058, except for the first
offense for the possession of not more than one ounce of marijuana, other than concentrated cannabis
 
4. Robbery or extortion
 
5. Assault or battery, as defined in Penal Code 240 and 242, upon any school employee
In determining whether or not to recommend the expulsion of a student, the Superintendent, principal, or designee shall act
as quickly as possible to ensure that the student does not lose instructional time. (Education Code 48915)
Student's Right to Expulsion Hearing
Any student recommended for expulsion shall be entitled to a hearing to determine whether the student should be expelled.
The hearing shall be held within 30 school days after the Superintendent, principal, or designee determines that one of the
act(s) that form the basis for the expulsion recommendation. (Education Code 48918(a))
The student is entitled to at least one postponement of an expulsion hearing for a period of not more than 30 calendar days. 
The request for postponement shall be in writing. Any subsequent postponement may be granted at the Board's discretion. 
(Education Code 48918(a))
If the Board finds it impractical during the school year to comply with these time requirements for conducting an expulsion
hearing, the Superintendent or designee may, for good cause, extend the time period by an additional five school days. 
Reasons for the extension shall be included as a part of the record when the expulsion hearing is held. (Education Code
48918(a))
If the Board finds it impractical to comply with the time requirements of the expulsion hearing due to a summer recess of
Board meetings of more than two weeks, the days during the recess shall not be counted as school days. The days not
counted during the recess may not exceed 20 school days, as defined in Education Code 48925. Unless the student requests
in writing that the expulsion hearing be postponed, the hearing shall be held not later than 20 calendar days prior to the first
day of the next school year. (Education Code 48918(a))

Once the hearing starts, all matters shall be pursued with reasonable diligence and concluded without unnecessary delay. 
(Education Code 48918(a))
Stipulated Expulsion
After a determination that a student has committed an expellable offense, the Superintendent, principal, or designee shall
offer the student and parent/guardian the option to waive a hearing and stipulate to the expulsion or to a suspension of the
expulsion under certain conditions. The offer shall be made only after the student or parent/guardian has been given written
notice of the expulsion hearing pursuant to Education Code 48918.
The stipulation agreement shall be in writing and shall be signed by the student and parent/guardian. The stipulation
agreement shall include notice of all the rights that the student is waiving, including the waiving of the right to have a full
hearing, to appeal the expulsion to the County Board of Education, and to consult legal counsel.
A stipulated expulsion agreed to by the student and parent/guardian shall be effective upon approval by the Board.
Rights of Complaining Witness
An expulsion hearing involving allegations of sexual assault or sexual battery may be postponed for one school day in order to
accommodate the special physical, mental or emotional needs of a student who is the complaining witness. (Education Code
48918.5)
Whenever the Superintendent or designee recommends an expulsion hearing that addresses allegations of sexual assault or
sexual battery, the Superintendent or designee shall give the complaining witness a copy of the district's suspension and
expulsion policy and regulation and shall advise the witness of the right to: (Education Code 48918.5)
1. Receive five days' notice of the scheduled testimony at the hearing
 
2. Have up to two adult support persons present in the hearing at the time the witness testifies
 
3. Have a closed hearing during the time the witness testifies
Whenever any allegation of sexual assault or sexual battery is made, the Superintendent or designee shall immediately advise
complaining witnesses and accused students to refrain from personal or telephone contact with each other during the time
when an expulsion process is pending. (Education Code 48918.5)
Written Notice of the Expulsion Hearing
Written notice of the expulsion hearing shall be forwarded to the student and the student's parent/guardian at least 10
calendar days before the date of the hearing. The notice shall include: (Education Code 48900.8, 48918(b))
1. The date and place of the hearing.
 
2. A statement of the specific facts, charges, and offense upon which the proposed expulsion is based.
 
3. A copy of district disciplinary rules which relate to the alleged violation.
 
4. Notification of the student's or parent/guardian's obligation, pursuant to Education Code 48915.1, to provide
information about the student's status in the district to any other district in which the student seeks enrollment. This
obligation applies when a student is expelled for acts other than those described in Education Code 48915(a) or (c).
 
5. The opportunity for the student or the student's parent/guardian to appear in person or be represented by legal
counsel or by a nonattorney advisor.
Legal counsel means an attorney or lawyer who is admitted to the practice of law in California and is an active member
of the State Bar of California.
Nonattorney advisor means an individual who is not an attorney or lawyer, but who is familiar with the facts of the case,
and has been selected by the student or student's parent/guardian to provide assistance at the hearing.
 
6. The right to inspect and obtain copies of all documents to be used at the hearing.
 

7. The opportunity to confront and question all witnesses who testify at the hearing.
 
8. The opportunity to question all evidence presented and to present oral and documentary evidence on the student's
behalf, including witnesses.
Additional Notice of Expulsion Hearing for Foster Youth and Homeless Students
If the student facing expulsion is a foster student, the Superintendent or designee shall also send notice of the hearing to the
student's attorney and a representative of an appropriate child welfare agency at least 10 days prior to the hearing. 
(Education Code 48918.1)
If the student facing expulsion is a homeless student, the Superintendent or designee shall also send notice of the hearing to
the district liaison for homeless students at least 10 days prior to the hearing. (Education Code 48918.1)
Any notice for these purposes may be provided by the most cost-effective method possible, including by email or a telephone
call. (Education Code 48918.1)
Conduct of Expulsion Hearing
1. Closed Session: Notwithstanding Education Code 35145, the Board shall conduct a hearing to consider the
expulsion of the student in a session closed to the public unless the student requests in writing at least five
days prior to the hearing that the hearing be a public meeting. If such request is made, the meeting shall be
public to the extent other students’ privacy rights are not violated. (Education Code 48918(c))
 Whether the expulsion hearing is held in closed or public session, the Board may meet in closed session to deliberate
and determine whether or not the student should be expelled. If the Board admits any other person to this closed
session, the parent/guardian, the student, and the counsel of the student shall also be allowed to attend the closed
session. (Education Code 48918(c))
If a hearing that involves a charge of sexual assault or sexual battery is to be conducted in public, a complaining witness
shall have the right to testify in closed session when testifying in public would threaten serious psychological harm to
the witness and when there are no alternative procedures to avoid the threatened harm, including but not limited to
videotaped deposition or contemporaneous examination in another place communicated to the hearing room by
closed-circuit television. (Education Code 48918(c))
 
2. Record of Hearing: A record of the hearing shall be made and may be maintained by any means, including electronic
recording, as long as a reasonably accurate and complete written transcription of the proceedings can be made. 
(Education Code 48918(g))
 
3. Subpoenas: Before commencing a student expulsion hearing, the Board may issue subpoenas, at the request of either
the student or the Superintendent or designee, for the personal appearance at the hearing of any person who actually
witnessed the action that gave rise to the recommendation for expulsion. After the hearing has commenced, the Board
or the hearing officer or administrative panel may issue such subpoenas at the request of the student or the County
Superintendent of Schools or designee. All subpoenas shall be issued in accordance with the Code of Civil Procedure
1985-1985.2 and enforced in accordance with Government Code 11455.20 (Education Code 48918(i))
Any objection raised by the student or the Superintendent or designee to the issuance of subpoenas may be
considered by the Board in closed session, or in open session if so requested by the student, before the meeting. The
Board's decision in response to such an objection shall be final and binding. (Education Code 48918(i))
If the Board determines, or if the hearing officer or administrative panel finds and submits to the Board, that a witness
would be subject to unreasonable risk of harm by testifying at the hearing, a subpoena shall not be issued to compel
the personal attendance of that witness at the hearing. However, that witness may be compelled to testify by means
of a sworn declaration as described in item #4 below. (Education Code 48918(i))
 
4. Presentation of Evidence: Technical rules of evidence shall not apply to the expulsion hearing, but relevant evidence
may be admitted and used as proof only if it is the kind of evidence on which reasonable persons can rely in the
conduct of serious affairs. The decision of the Board to expel shall be supported by substantial evidence that the
student committed any of the acts pursuant to Education Code 48900 and listed in "Grounds for Suspension and
Expulsion" above. (Education Code 48918(h))
Findings of fact shall be based solely on the evidence at the hearing. While no finding shall be based solely on hearsay,

sworn declarations may be admitted as testimony from witnesses whose disclosure of their identity or testimony at the
hearing may subject them to an unreasonable risk of physical or psychological harm. (Education Code 48918(f))
In cases where a search of a student's person or property has occurred, evidence describing the reasonableness of the
search shall be included in the hearing record.
 
5. Testimony by Complaining Witnesses: The following procedures shall be observed when hearings involve allegations
of sexual assault or sexual battery by a student: (Education Code 48918, 48918.5)
 
a. Any complaining witness shall be given five days' notice before being called to testify.
 
b. Any complaining witness shall be entitled to have up to two adult support persons, including but not limited to a
parent/guardian or legal counsel, present during their testimony.
 
c. Before a complaining witness testifies, support persons shall be admonished that the hearing is confidential.
 
d. The person presiding over the hearing may remove a support person who is disrupting the hearing.
 
e. If one or both support persons are also witnesses, the hearing shall be conducted according to Penal Code
868.5.
 
f. Evidence of specific instances of prior sexual conduct of a complaining witness shall be presumed inadmissible
and shall not be heard unless the person conducting the hearing determines that extraordinary circumstances
require the evidence to be heard. Before such a determination is made, the complaining witness shall be given
notice and an opportunity to oppose the introduction of this evidence. In the hearing on the admissibility of this
evidence, the complaining witness shall be entitled to be represented by a parent/guardian, legal counsel or
other support person. Reputation or opinion evidence regarding the sexual behavior of a complaining witness
shall not be admissible for any purpose.
 
g. In order to facilitate a free and accurate statement of the experiences of the complaining witness and to prevent
discouragement of complaints, the district shall provide a nonthreatening environment.
 
i. The district shall provide a room separate from the hearing room for the use of the complaining witness
before and during breaks in testimony.
 
ii. At the discretion of the person conducting the hearing, the complaining witness shall be allowed
reasonable periods of relief from examination and cross-examination during which he/she may leave the
hearing room.
 
iii. The person conducting the hearing may:
 
a. Arrange the seating within the hearing room so as to facilitate a less intimidating environment for
the complaining witness
 
b. Limit the time for taking the testimony of a complaining witness to normal school hours if there is
no good cause to take the testimony during other hours
 
c. Permit one of the support persons to accompany the complaining witness to the witness stand
 
6. Decision: The Board's decision as to whether to expel a student shall be made within 40 school days after the student
is removed from school, unless the student requests in writing that the decision be postponed. (Education Code
48918(a))
Alternative Expulsion Hearing: Hearing Officer or Administrative Panel
Instead of conducting an expulsion hearing itself, the Board may contract with the county hearing officer or with the Office of
Administrative Hearings of the State of California for a hearing officer. Alternatively, the Board may appoint an impartial
administrative panel composed of three or more certificated personnel, none of whom shall be members of the Board or on
the staff of the school in which the student is enrolled. (Education Code 48918(d))
A hearing conducted by the hearing officer or administrative panel shall conform to the same procedures as apply to a
hearing conducted by the Board as specified above in "Conduct of Expulsion Hearing" including the requirement to issue a

decision within 40 school days of the student's removal from school, unless the student requests that the decision be
postponed. (Education Code 48918(a) and (d))
The hearing officer or administrative panel shall, within three school days after the hearing, determine whether to
recommend expulsion of the student to the Board. If expulsion is not recommended, the expulsion proceeding shall be
terminated and the student shall be immediately reinstated and permitted to return to the classroom instructional program
from which the referral was made, unless another placement is requested in writing by the student's parent/guardian. Before
the student's placement decision is made by the student's parent/guardian, the Superintendent or designee shall consult with
the parent/guardian and district staff, including the student's teachers, regarding other placement options for the student in
addition to the option to return to the classroom instructional program from which the student's expulsion referral was made.
The decision to not recommend expulsion shall be final. (Education Code 48918(e))
If expulsion is recommended, findings of fact in support of the recommendation shall be prepared and submitted to the
Board. All findings of fact and recommendations shall be based solely on the evidence presented at the hearing. The Board
may accept the recommendation based either upon a review of the findings of fact and recommendations submitted or upon
the results of any supplementary hearing the Board may order. (Education Code 48918(f))
In accordance with Board policy, the hearing officer or administrative panel may recommend that the Board suspend the
enforcement of the expulsion. If the hearing officer or administrative panel recommends that the Board expel a student but
suspend the enforcement of the expulsion, the student shall not be reinstated and permitted to return to the classroom
instructional program from which the referral was made until the Board has ruled on the recommendation. (Education Code
48917, 48918)
Final Action by the Board
Whether the expulsion hearing is conducted in closed or open session by the Board, a hearing officer, or an administrative
panel, or is waived through the signing of a stipulated expulsion agreement, the final action to expel shall be taken by the
Board at a public meeting. (Education Code 48918(j))
The Board's decision is final. If the decision is not to expel, the student shall be reinstated immediately. If the decision is to
suspend the enforcement of the expulsion, the student shall be reinstated under the conditions of the suspended expulsion.
Upon ordering an expulsion, the Board shall set a date when the student shall be reviewed for readmission to a school within
the district. For a student expelled for any "mandatory recommendation and mandatory expulsion" act listed in the section
"Authority to Expel" in the accompanying Board policy, this date shall be one year from the date the expulsion occurred,
except that the Board may set an earlier date on a case-by-case basis. For a student expelled for other acts, this date shall be
no later than the last day of the semester following the semester in which the expulsion occurred. If an expulsion is ordered
during the summer session, the Board shall set a date when the student shall be reviewed for readmission not later than the
last day of the semester following the summer session in which the expulsion occurred. (Education Code 48916)
At the time of the expulsion order, the Board shall recommend a plan for the student's rehabilitation, which may include:
(Education Code 48916)
1. Periodic review as well as assessment of the student at the time of review for readmission
 
2. Recommendations for improved academic performance, tutoring, special education assessments, job training,
counseling, employment, community service, and or other rehabilitative programs
With parent/guardian consent, students who have been expelled for reasons relating to controlled substances or alcohol may
be required to enroll in a county-sponsored drug rehabilitation program before returning to school. (Education Code
48916.5)
Written Notice to Expel
The Superintendent or designee shall send written notice of the decision to expel to the student or parent/guardian. This
notice shall include the following:
1. The specific offense committed by the student for any of the causes for suspension or expulsion listed above
under "Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8," or "Additional Grounds for Suspension and
Expulsion: Grades 4-8". (Education Code 48900.8)
 
2. The fact that a description of readmission procedures will be made available to the student and parent/guardian

(Education Code 48916)
 
3. Notice of the right to appeal the expulsion to the County Board of Education (Education Code 48918)
 
4. Notice of the alternative educational placement to be provided to the student during the time of expulsion (Education
Code 48918)
 
5. Notice of the student's or parent/guardian's obligation to inform any new district in which the student seeks to enroll
of the student's status with the expelling district, pursuant to Education Code 48915.1 (Education Code 48918)
Decision to Suspend Expulsion Order
In accordance with Board policy, when deciding whether to suspend the enforcement of an expulsion, the Board shall take
into account the following criteria:
1. The student's pattern of behavior
 
2. The seriousness of the misconduct
 
3. The student's attitude toward the misconduct and their willingness to follow a rehabilitation program
The suspension of the enforcement of an expulsion shall be governed by the following: 
1. The Board may, as a condition of the suspension of enforcement, assign the student to a school, class, or
program appropriate for the student's rehabilitation. This rehabilitation program may provide for the
involvement of the student's parent/guardian in the student's education. However, a parent/guardian's refusal
to participate in the rehabilitation program shall not be considered in the Board's determination as to whether
the student has satisfactorily completed the rehabilitation program. (Education Code 48917)
 
2. During the period when enforcement of the expulsion order is suspended, the student shall be on probationary status.
 
3. The suspension of the enforcement of an expulsion order may be revoked by the Board if the student commits any of
the acts listed under "Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8", "Additional Grounds for Suspension and
Expulsion: Grades 4-8", above or violates any of the district's rules and regulations governing student conduct.
 
4. When the suspension of the enforcement of an expulsion order is revoked, a student may be expelled under the terms
of the original expulsion order.
 
5. Upon satisfactory completion of the rehabilitation assignment, the Board shall reinstate the student in a district school. 
Upon reinstatement, the Board may order the expunging of any or all records of the expulsion proceedings.
 
6. The Superintendent or designee shall send written notice of any decision to suspend the enforcement of an expulsion
order during a period of probation to the student or parent/guardian. The notice shall also inform the parent/guardian
of the right to appeal the expulsion to the County Board of Education, the alternative educational placement to be
provided to the student during the period of expulsion, and the student's or parent/guardian's obligation to inform any
new district in which the student seeks to enroll of the student's status with the expelling district, pursuant to
Education Code 48915.1(b). (Education Code 48918(j))
 
7. Suspension of the enforcement of an expulsion order shall not affect the time period and requirements for the filing of
an appeal of the expulsion order with the County Board of Education.
Appeal
The student or parent/guardian is entitled to file an appeal of the Board's decision with the County Board of Education. The
appeal must be filed within 30 days of the Board's decision to expel, even if the expulsion action is suspended and the student
is placed on probation. (Education Code 48919)
If the student submits a written request for a copy of the written transcripts and supporting documents from the district
simultaneously with the filing of the notice of appeal with the County Board of Education, the district shall provide the
student with these documents within 10 school days following the student's written request. (Education Code 48919)
Notifications to Law Enforcement Authorities

Prior to the suspension or expulsion of any student, the principal or designee shall notify appropriate city or county law
enforcement authorities of any student acts of assault which may have violated Penal Code 245. (Education Code 48902)
The principal or designee also shall notify appropriate city or county law enforcement authorities of any student acts which
may involve the possession or sale of narcotics or of a controlled substance or of any student acts involving the possession,
sale, or furnishing of firearms, explosives, or other dangerous weapons in violation of Education Code 48915(c)(1) or (5) or
Penal Code 626.9 and 626.10. (Education Code 48902)
Within one school day after a student's suspension or expulsion, the principal or designee shall notify appropriate city or
county law enforcement authorities, by telephone or other appropriate means, of any student acts which may violate
Education Code 48900(c) or (d), relating to the possession, use, offering or sale of controlled substances, alcohol or
intoxicants of any kind. (Education Code 48902)
Placements During Expulsion
The Board shall refer expelled students to a program of study that is: Education Code 48915, 48915.01)
1. Appropriately prepared to accommodate students who exhibit discipline problems
 
2. Not provided at a comprehensive middle, or at any elementary school, unless the program is offered at a community
day school established at such a site
 
3. Not housed at the school site attended by the student at the time of suspension
When the placement described above is not available, and when the County Superintendent of Schools so certifies, students
expelled for acts described in items #6-12 under "Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades K-8" and items #1-3 under
"Additional Grounds for Suspension and Expulsion: Grades 4-8 above may be referred to a program of study that is provided
at another comprehensive middle school, or at an elementary school. (Education Code 48915)
The program for a student expelled from any of grades K-6 shall not be combined or merged with programs offered to
students in any of grades 7-8. (Education Code 48916.1)
Readmission After Expulsion
Prior to the date set by the Board for the student's readmission:
1. The Superintendent or designee shall hold a conference with the parent/guardian and the student. At the
conference the student's rehabilitation plan shall be reviewed and the Superintendent or designee shall verify
that the provisions of this plan have been met. School regulations shall be reviewed and the student and
parent/guardian shall be asked to indicate in writing their willingness to comply with these regulations.
 
2. The Superintendent or designee shall transmit to the Board a recommendation regarding readmission. The Board shall
consider this recommendation in closed session. If a written request for open session is received from the
parent/guardian or adult student, it shall be honored to the extent that privacy rights of other students are not
violated.
 
3. If the readmission is granted, the Superintendent or designee shall notify the student and parent/guardian, by
registered mail, of the Board's decision regarding readmission.
 
4. The Board may deny readmission only if it finds that the student has not satisfied the conditions of the rehabilitation
plan or that the student continues to pose a danger to campus safety or to other district students or employees. 
(Education Code 48916)
 
5. If the Board denies the readmission of a student, the Board shall determine either to continue the student's placement
in the alternative educational program initially selected or to place the student in another program that serves expelled
students, including placement in a county community school. (Education Code 48916)
 
6. The Board shall provide written notice to the expelled student and parent/guardian describing the reasons for denying
readmittance into the regular program. This notice shall indicate the Board's determination of the educational program
which the Board has chosen. The student shall enroll in that program unless the parent/guardian chooses to enroll the
student in another school district. (Education Code 48916)

Policy Reference Disclaimer:
No student shall be denied readmission into the district based solely on the student's arrest, adjudication by a juvenile court,
formal or informal supervision by a probation officer, detention in a juvenile facility, enrollment in a juvenile court school, or
other such contact with the juvenile justice system. (Education Code 48645.5)
Maintenance of Records
The Board shall maintain a record of each suspension and expulsion, including its specific cause(s). 
The expulsion record shall be maintained in the student's mandatory interim record and sent to any school in which the
student subsequently enrolls upon receipt of a written request by the admitting school. (Education Code 48918(k))
The Superintendent or designee shall, within five working days, honor any other district's request for information about an
expulsion from this district. (Education Code 48915.1)

================================================================================
REFERENCES
================================================================================

State References:
  - Civ. Code 47
  - Privileged communication
  - Civ. Code 48.8
  - Defamation liability
  - Code of Civil Procedure 1985-1997
  - Production of evidence; means of production
  - Ed. Code 17292.5
  - Program for expelled students; facilities
  - Ed. Code 1981-1983
  - Enrollment of students in community school
  - Ed. Code 212.5
  - Sexual harassment
  - Ed. Code 233
  - Hate violence
  - Ed. Code 32260-32262
  - Interagency School Safety Demonstration Act of 1985
  - Ed. Code 35145
  - Open board meetings
  - Ed. Code 35146
  - Closed sessions regarding suspensions
  - Ed. Code 35291
  - Rules for government and discipline of schools
  - Ed. Code 35291.5
  - Rules and procedures on school discipline
  - Ed. Code 48645.5
  - Former juvenile court school students; enrollment
  - Ed. Code 48660-48666
  - Community day schools
  - Ed. Code 48853-48853.5
  - Foster youth
  - Ed. Code 48900-48927
  - Suspension and expulsion
  - Ed. Code 48950
  - Speech and other communication
  - Ed. Code 48980
  - Parent/Guardian notifications
  - Ed. Code 49073-49079
  - Privacy of student records
  - Ed. Code 52052
  - Numerically significant student subgroups
  - Ed. Code 52060-52077
  - Local control and accountability plan
  - Ed. Code 64000-64001
  - Consolidated application
  - Ed. Code 8489-8489.1
  - Prohibition against expulsion of preschool student
  - Gov. Code 11455.20
  - Informal hearing procedures
  - Gov. Code 54950-54963
  - The Ralph M. Brown Act
  - H&S Code 11014.5
  - Drug paraphernalia
  - H&S Code 11053-11059
  - Controlled substances; standards and schedules
  - Lab. Code 230.7
  - Employee time off to appear in school on behalf of a child
  - 365
  - Pen. Code 240
  - Assault defined
  - Pen. Code 241.2
  - Assault fines
  - Pen. Code 242
  - Battery defined
  - Pen. Code 243.2
  - Battery on school property
  - Pen. Code 243.4
  - Sexual battery
  - Pen. Code 245
  - Assault with deadly weapon
  - Pen. Code 245.6
  - Hazing
  - Pen. Code 261
  - Rape defined
  - Pen. Code 266c
  - Unlawful sexual intercourse
  - Pen. Code 286
  - Sodomy defined
  - Pen. Code 287
  - Oral Copulation
  - Pen. Code 288
  - Lewd or lascivious acts with child under age 14
  - Pen. Code 289
  - Penetration of genital or anal openings
  - Pen. Code 31
  - Principal of a crime; defined
  - Pen. Code 417.27
  - Laser pointers
  - Pen. Code 422.55
  - Definition of hate crime
  - Pen. Code 422.6
  - Crimes; harassment
  - Pen. Code 422.7
  - Aggravating factors for punishment
  - Pen. Code 422.75
  - Enhanced penalties for hate crimes
  - Pen. Code 626.10
  - Dirks, daggers, knives, razors, or stun guns
  - Pen. Code 626.2
  - Entry upon campus after written notice of suspension or dismissal without
  - permission
  - Pen. Code 626.9
  - Gun-Free School Zone Act of 1995
  - Pen. Code 868.5
  - Supporting person; attendance during testimony of witness
  - W&I Code 224.1
  - Indian child; definition
  - W&I Code 729.6
  - Counseling
  - State

Federal References:
  - 18 USC 921
  - Definitions; firearms and ammunition
  - 20 USC 1415(K)
  - Students with disabilities; placement in alternative educational setting
  - 20 USC 7961
  - Gun-Free Schools Act
  - 42 USC 11431-11435
  - Education of homeless children and youths

Management Resources:
  - Attorney General Opinion
  - 80 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 348 (1997)
  - Attorney General Opinion
  - 80 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 85 (1997)
  - Attorney General Opinion
  - 80 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 91 (1997)
  - Attorney General Opinion
  - 84 Ops.Cal.Atty.Gen. 146 (2001)
  - Court Decision
  - Board of Education of Sacramento City Unified School District v.
  - Sacramento County Board of Education and Kenneth H. (2001) 85
  - Cal.App.4th 1321
  - 366
  - Court Decision
  - Fremont Union High School District v. Santa Clara County Board (1991) 235
  - Cal. App. 3d 1182
  - Court Decision
  - Garcia v. Los Angeles Board of Education (1981) 123 Cal. App. 3d 807
  - Court Decision
  - John A. v. San Bernardino School District (1982) 33 Cal. 3d 301
  - Court Decision
  - T.H. v. San Diego Unified School District (2004) 122 Cal. App. 4th 1267
  - Court Decision
  - Woodbury v. Dempsey (2003) 108 Cal. App. 4th 421
  - U.S. DOE & U.S. DOJ Civil Rights Divisions Pub
  - Resource on Confronting Racial Discrimination in Student Discipline, May
  - 2023
  - U.S. DOE Publication
  - School Climate and Student Discipline Resources
  - U.S. DOE Publication
  - Guiding Principles for Creating Safe, Inclusive, Supportive, and Fair School
  - Climates, March 2023
  - Website
  - CSBA District and County Office of Education Legal Services
  - Website
  - U.S. Department of Education, Office of Safe and Healthy Students
  - Website
  - California Attorney General's Office
  - Website
  - California Department of Education
  - Website
  - CSBA
  - Website
  - U.S. Department of Education, Office for Civil Rights
  - Management Resources
